---
title: "What is my job anymore"
date: "2020-04-19"
tags: ['career', 'software-dev']
---
Watching techlead videos and realising that my job is really kinda redundant.
All I actually do is attach endpoints together and ship that as a product.
Nothing that's done really needs code to be handwritten by me; implementation
matters at scale but when it's for a small ish project, most of these tasks get
outsourced thanks to Open Source Software (OSS). I'm grateful, no doubt, that
I don't have to write a package which will create web components for me to
reuse, grateful that someone else that has written a testing framework which
prettifies my results and even chucks them into a styled html doc. Hell,
I can barely imagine writing my own load balancer. I don't even know how that
shit works. I think they used to develop those from scratch.

The point I'm making is that coding is so last decade. Most stuff is already
coded for you. All you have to do is slap them together and the most code that
you have to look at is the URLs that you're using. Think ecommerce: shopify for
your store, 99 designs for your logos. Canva for ads. facebook marketing. Mail
chimp for subscriptions n shit. Google analytics to see how things are going.
All you have to do is copy paste stuff from A into the settings for B. The role
of the developer, then, is more of a mindset or mental headspace. Knowing how
these things fit together is the role of like a software architect, right? I'm
working this out as we go. This is a panic brain-dump.

In other words, everything becomes low-level and gets replaced with an
abstracted version of it. Coding websites in straight up html and css is
low-level, react and other front-end frameworks are the abstracted version of
that. No one I know codes in assembly, it's all python and javascript and .net.
Everything low-level gets used to build the next big thing. So one day, maybe,
front-end frameworks will power whatever's next -- OH WAIT THEY ALREADY DO. 
Drag and drop interface builders (think Wix, Squarespace, etc [^1]) probably 
use reusable visual components to build their applications. THAT'S MY FIELD. Am
I being made redundant?? Is my skill becoming useless as we speak?? As a part
of the no code movement, ANYONE can do what I do. You don't need a degree to
build nice-looking websites anymore. You don't need to know the difference
between `var`, `let` and `const` to build a mail server. What is there left for
me to do? Maybe one day there will be such a thing as artisinal code.

As always, I'm blowing things way out of proportion. Sure, code can write code
but for now that software is pretty expensive or in early stages. The best that
I can do is up-skill in my own abilities to code and to understand the stuff
around code. Coding interviews will still ask me about Big O notation and how
to write an algorithm to rotate a black and red tree or whatever. How important
these things are, I don't know. What I do want to learn are the things below
the low-level stuff. I've been making my way back into math and more
fundamental things. It's always cool knowing how that stuff works. Most
recently, I watched the numberphile video on the Josephus problem. Go watch it.
The other side of that spectrum is the more important stuff that people are
raving on about: machine learning, VR/AR. In that Gary Hustwit documentary
"Objectified" [^2], the guy who invented the ergonomic peeler says something 
along the lines of "design for the extremes and the middle will sort itself
out". I'll figure out the stuff in the middle once I get the other ends.

[^1]: Not you, dreamweaver, although it might spit out some react or vue code
  idk. I haven't looked into it yet

[^2]: https://www.hustwit.com/objectified
